218 Update main README (#220)
nestauk/asf_heat_pump_suitability: README.md

# ASF Heat Pump Suitability

### Version 2.0.0 (in progress)

> V2.0.0 of `asf_heat_pump_suitability` expands on previous work; we are building a mapping tool that aims to:

Reviewer: Feel free to change the wording, I just wanted to make the point that this is not the repo to build the tool, instead to support with the underlying data.
```suggestion
V2.0.0 of the `asf_heat_pump_suitability` repository generates the underlying data for Nesta's local heat planning tool aiming to:
```

> - categorise groups of properties by technology - grouping similar neighbouring properties by the most suitable low-carbon heating technology

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- cluster groups of properties by technology: grouping similar neighbouring properties by the most suitable low-carbon heating group of technologies
```

> - provide additional key information about properties, households and the area they are located in to support decision-making by local areas and the supply chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- provide additional key information about properties, households and the area they are located in, for each cluster
```

>   Read more about this work [here](https://www.nesta.org.uk/project-updates/a-tool-to-support-local-clean-heat-planning/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Low-carbon heating technology groups include **individual heat sources**, **networked ground source heat pumps** (also known as **shared ground loops**), **communal heat sources** and **district heat networks**. You can read more about this work [here](https://www.nesta.org.uk/project-updates/a-tool-to-support-local-clean-heat-planning/)
```

### Version 1.0.0

V1.0.0 of `asf_heat_pump_suitability` contains the code used to calculate heat pump suitability scores for lower-layer
super output areas (LSOAs) in England and Wales and Data Zones in Scotland using domestic EPC data and supplementary sources. Scores are
weight-adjusted for LSOAs where possible to reduce bias.

> Read more about this work [here](https://www.nesta.org.uk/project/mapping-heat-pump-suitability-across-great-britain/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can currently visualise [heat pump suitability scores across Great Britain in this map](https://heatpumpsuitability.dap-tools.uk/) for air source heat pumps, ground source heat pumps, shared group loops and heat networks. You can read more about this work [here](https://www.nesta.org.uk/project/mapping-heat-pump-suitability-across-great-britain/). Please note that following the shift in our methodology to what we've developing in v2.0.0, the underlying data and associated map are no longer being updated. The map will be decommissioned in the near future.

Source code for v1.0.0 is available under [Releases](https://github.com/nestauk/asf_heat_pump_suitability/releases).
```

## Repository structure

```
asf_heat_pump_suitability
├───config/
│    Respository config files and global variables
│    ├─ base.yaml - data sources and global variables and constants
│    ├─ README.md - data source information, citations, and attributions
├───getters/
│    Modules with functions to load data
│    ├─ base_getters.py - generic getter functions; no specific datasets
│    ├─ load_geodata.py - load raw geodatasets with no preprocessing

> │    ├─ load_boundaries.py - load census and geographical boundaries (LSOA, LA, national etc.)

Reviewer: why are we separating these?

Author: I kept these separate because I wanted it to be easier for us to locate census boundary data and identify it from data *about* the census geographies.

> │    ├─ load_data.py - load pecific raw datasets using base getters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
│    ├─ load_data.py - load specific raw datasets using base getters
```

├───pipeline/
│    Subdirs with modules to process data and produce outputs
│    ├─ cluster/ - modules to group properties

> │    ├─ impute/ - modules to impute missing data

Reviewer: will we keep this? or will we do imputation within each specific part of the pipeline?

Author: we have files in `/impute` already but it can be moved later if we choose to incorporate it in a different way. I wanted separate imputation for missing data in case we create models for this - i.e. more than simple transformations.

│    ├─ model/ - modules to engineer features and train models

> │    ├─ run/ - main scripts to run the pipeline

Reviewer: I am still confused by the fact that we have scripts that we're running within each folder but then we also have a run folder.

Author: see comment in PR #219 [here](https://github.com/nestauk/asf_heat_pump_suitability/pull/219/changes#r2833976266)

│    ├─ transform/ - modules to process input datasets, files named by feature (e.g. `uprns.py`)
│    ├─ README.md - instructions to run pipeline
├───research/
│    Any exploratory or analytical work; each piece of work should have its own subdir within either the `exploratory` or `analysis folders
│    ├─ analysis/ - ad-hoc analysis that uses the data from the project or is relevant to the project

> │    ├─ exploratory/ - exploration of methods, datasets, or functions that may be incorporated into the data pipeline

Reviewer: nice!

- This work uses [Facebook Research's balance package](https://github.com/facebookresearch/balance) and [ipfn](https://github.com/Dirguis/ipfn) to conduct iterative proportional fitting.
  Sarig, T., Galili, T., & Eilat, R. (2023). balance – a Python package for balancing biased data samples. https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.06024

## License

> This dataset is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License.

Reviewer: I'm guessing this is something you've discussed with Liz or Seth previously? As in, you've discussed what the most suitable license is for the data we currently have available for the previous version of the work.

Reviewer: Also, were we only sharing it if requested?

Author: I believe this was discussed a while ago internally when releasing v1.0.0. Happy to put discuss briefly again in a review to double check we're still happy with this.

In terms of sharing, we have published a link to the data in one of our previous publications about this.

## Contributor guidelines and style guide

This guide outlines the conventions for function and file naming for the `asf_heat_pump_suitability` project.

### 1. Function naming conventions

All functions must follow the naming format `def a_b_cde()`:

- **a (Action):** What the function does (e.g., `load`, `transform`, `generate`, `extend`).
- **b (Return Type):** The type of object the function returns (e.g., `df`, `gdf`, `list`, `dict`).
- **cde (Description):** Short description of the function - e.g. for getters we want to specify the source and dataset.

#### Common actions ('a')

- **load:** Load raw dataframes (from S3) with no processing.
- **transform:** Process a dataframe or data.
- **generate:** Create a new dataframe or variable.
- **extend:** Add columns to a dataframe.

#### Example function names

- `load_df_osopen_uprn()`: Load raw OSOpen UPRN dataframe.
- `filter_gdf_residential_uprns()`: Filter GeoDataFrame of UPRNs to residential UPRNs only.
- `generate_gdf_non_residential_buildings()`: Generate a new GeoDataFrame containing non-residential buildings.

### 2. Docstrings and type hinting

> 

Reviewer: We should add that all .py files should have a docstring at the top

Every function must include:

- **Type Hinting:** For both function arguments and return types. Types must also be listed in the `Args` and `Returns` sections.

> - **Short Description:** A concise explanation of the function's purpose.

Reviewer 2: In the Docstring I assume? Any other docstring standards?

Author: Good point - updated for clarity

### 3. S3 source file naming

**Important:** keep track of original source locations and descriptions in `config/README.md` using the established table format for every dataset used.
Raw source data should be saved to the `asf-heat-pump-suitability` bucket in the `/local_heat_planning/inputs/` directory (and appropriate subdir, if applicable) using the format `a_vb_c_d_e`:

- **a**: Date of origin (publication date).
- **b**: Version date (if available).
- **c**: Source name (e.g. `OSOpen`, `ONS`).
- **d**: Short descriptive name (e.g. `building_geometries`).
- **e**: Geographical coverage (e.g. `UK`, `GB`, `global`).

**Example:** `v202510_OSOpenMapLocal_building_geometries_Plymouth.shp`.

> See further [Technical and working style guidelines](https://github.com/nestauk/ds-cookiecutter/blob/master/GUIDELINES.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See further [technical and working style guidelines](https://github.com/nestauk/ds-cookiecutter/blob/master/GUIDELINES.md)
```
